Depression is a serious and common medical condition
that affects how you feel, your mood,
how you think and act.
Also called clinical depression
or major depressive disorder,
depression can lead to a variety of emotional
and physical problems and can affect
your ability to handle daily activities,
such as sleeping, eating, or working.
Feeling down at times is a normal part of life.
Sad and difficult events happen to everyone.
But if you’re experiencing symptoms on a regular basis,
you may be dealing with depression.
To be diagnosed with depression,
symptoms must be present most of the time
for at least 2 weeks.
Common symptoms are:
Feeling sad, “empty”, or a depressed mood
Feeling hopeless, worthless, or guilty
Loss of interest in activities you previously enjoyed
Feeling bothered, annoyed, or angry
Trouble sleeping or sleeping too much
Loss of energy or increased fatigue
Difficulty concentrating, remembering,
or making decisions
Moving or talking more slowly
Thoughts of death, suicide,
self-harm, or suicide attempts
Treatment is available for depression.
Talk with your healthcare provider right away
if you are experiencing symptoms of depression.
Depression is a complex disease and
researchers are constantly learning more.
Use of new brain imaging technology
has led to a better understanding of
which areas of the brain regulate mood.
Areas of the brain that play
a significant role in depression
are the amygdala,
the thalamus, and
the hippocampus.
Depression is not as simple as
one brain chemical being too low
and another being too high.
More important than levels of specific brain chemicals,
researchers believe that nerve cell growth and connections,
and the functioning of nerve circuits in the brain
have a major impact on depression.
Researchers understanding of the biology of depression
is far from complete
and advancements continue to be made.